Let's talk about sticky sessions,
also called session affinity
for your Elastic Load Balancer.
So it's possible to implement what's called stickiness
or sticky sessions,
and the idea is that the client
doing two requests to the load balancer
will have the same instance
in the backend to respond to the request.
So the idea is that for example,
you have the ALB with two EC2 instances,
and you have three clients.
If the client one makes a request
and it goes to the first EC2 instance,
that means that when it does a second request
to the load balancer,
it will go to the same instance.
Which is a different behavior
where usually the Application Load Balancer
will do a spread of all the requests
across all the EC2 instances.
Now for client two, if it goes to the ALB
and talks to the second instance,
then all the requests will go there.
And same for client three.
Okay?
So this is a behavior that can be enabled
for the Classic Load Balancer
and the Application Load Balancer.
And how it works, well there is a cookie
that is sent as part of the request
from the client's two load balancer.
And it has stickiness and it has an expiration date,
that means that when the cookie expires
then the client may be redirected to another EC2 instance.
Use case for this is to make sure
that the user is connected to the same backend instance,
in order not to lose his session data.
Which can take some important information
such as the login of the user, for example.
But if you enable stickiness,
it may bring imbalance to the load
over the backend EC2 instances,
in case some instances I have a very, very sticky user.
Okay.
Now to go a little bit deeper,
how about the cookie itself?
Well, there are two types of cookie
that you can have for sticky sessions.
The first one is application-based cookie,
and the second one is duration-based cookie.
So for application-based cookies,
well it's a custom cookie
that is generated by the target,
so by your application itself.
And you can include any custom attributes you want
by required by your application.
The cookie name must be specified individually
for each target group, okay?
And you must not use the following name,
so AWSALB, AWSALBAPP, OR AWSALBTG,
because they are already reserved
for used by the ALB itself.
Or it could be an application cookie,
and this time will be generated by the load balancer itself.
And the cookie name used by the ALB will be AWSALBAPP.
Okay?
Now the second type of cookies is duration-based cookie,
and it's a cookie generated by the load balancer.
And the name is AWSALB for the ALB,
and AWSELB for the CLB.
Okay?
And the idea is this one will have an expiry
based on a specific duration,
and the duration is generated
by the load balancer itself.
Okay?
Whereas before, well there
is an application-based cookie,
so the duration can be specified by the application itself.
So that's how it works, okay?
You don't need to remember exactly the name of the cookies
or the fact that you have custom and application,
but you remember there is application-based cookies
and duration-based cookies,
and they have a specific name,
and this will be coming into account
when we talk about CloudFront.
Okay?
So if I look at my load balancer right now,
and I open it in the new tab, as you can see
it goes between my three instances in my load balancer.
So that's perfect.
But now I'm going to enable sticky sessions.
So to do so, I'm going to go at the target group level,
open my target group,
and then Action.
And I will can edit the attributes of my target group.
And in the bottom I have Stickiness or sticky sessions.
And as we can see,
we have two types of stickiness available to us.
Okay?
We have the load balancer generated cookie,
which is a duration type of stickiness.
So I can say between one second and seven days.
Or I can have an application-based cookie,
between one second to seven days again,
but this time I need to specify the cookie name
that is sent by the app to the load balancer.
So it could be MYCUSTOMAPPCOOKIE.
And then this is what the load balancer
would be using to perform the stickiness.
Okay?
So that's it for stickiness.
As we can see,
if we just have a load balancer generated cookie
and we set the stickiness duration to be equal
to say one day,
and I will save this change.
So now let's have a look.
So I'm going to go and open the debugger as well
so we can have a look at the network
and see what happens.
So if we have a look at the network,
and then I refresh this page,
as we can see, I refresh it multiple times.
Okay?
You get access to the same instance.
So 7-176 is the one
that's coming back, back, and back, and back.
And now what's going to happen is
that when you look at the GET request made
to the load balancer,
and I'm very, very sorry for the font size here,
I don't think I can really increase it.
But if you go to Cookies, as you can see here,
there is a response cookie, okay?
That is saying that your cookie expires tomorrow.
Here is the path,
and here is the value of the cookie.
And then in the request cookie,
when the browser makes a request to the load balancer
it sends again the cookie it has right here.
And so because of the cookie being passed and sent,
this is how stickiness works.
Okay?
So just a little bit of a deeper dive
into how stickiness works.
But that's it for this lecture,
I hope you liked it.
And by the way, to access the web developer tools,
you click on Web Developer
and then Web Developer Tools.
And I just use a short shortcut for that.
And it's the same on Chrome and Firefox.
And then you go into Network,
and you get access to your information around your request.
Okay?
And finally, just go back to your target group
and then you edit the attributes itself,
and you can disable stickiness
to come back to normal behavior.
We should be good to go.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.